## Purpose
[MongoDB GridFS](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/core/gridfs/) comes with some natural advantages such as scalability(sharding) and HA(replica set). But as it stores file as ASCII string, there's no doubt a performance loss.

I'm just comparing performance on different deployment. Serve static files from Hard disk or from a Database blob system is your choice.



## Credits
[Neil Chen](https://github.com/neilchencn) (neil.chen.nj@gmail.com) 

## Configurations

### 1, Nginx
<pre>
location /files/ {
  alias /home/ubuntu/;
} 
</pre>
``open_file_cache`` kept ``off`` during the test.

### 2, Nginx_GridFS
It's a Nginx plugin based on MongoDB C driver. [https://github.com/mdirolf/nginx-gridfs](https://github.com/mdirolf/nginx-gridfs)

#### Compile code & install
I made a quick [install script](/nginx_gridfs_install.sh) in this repo, run it with ``sudo``. After Nginx is ready, modify the configration file under /usr/local/nginx/conf/nginx.conf (if you didn't change the path). 

#### Configuration
<pre>
location /gridfs/{
   gridfs test1 type=string field=filename;
}
</pre>
Use ``/usr/local/nginx/sbin/nginx`` to start Nginx. And use parameter ``-s reload`` if you changed the configuration file again.

### 3, Python 
#### library version
 - Flask 0.10.1
 - Gevent 1.0.0
 - Gunicorn 0.18.0
 - pymongo 2.6.3
 
#### run application

<pre>
cd flaskapp/
sudo chmod +x runflask.sh
bash runflask.sh
</pre>
Script [``runflask.sh``](/flaskapp/runflask.sh) will start gunicorn with gevnet woker mode.
Gunicorn configuration file [here](/flask/gunicorncfg.py)


### 4, Node.js
#### library version
 - Node.js 0.10.4
 - Express 3.4.7
 - mongodb(driver) 1.3.23

#### run application

<pre>
cd nodejsapp/
sudo chmod +x runnodejs.sh
bash runnodejs.sh
</pre>


## Test

### Test items:
>
 1. file served by Nginx directly 
 2. file served by Nginx_gridFS + GridFS
 3. file served by Flask + pymongo + gevent + GridFS
 4. file served by Node.js + GridFS

### Files for downloading:
Run script [insert_file_gridfs.py](/insert_file_gridfs.py) from MongoDB server to insert 4 different size of file to database <strong>test1</strong>(``pymongo`` is required)
>
 - 1KB
 - 100KB
 - 1MB

### Test Environment
2 servers:
>
 - MongoDB+Application/Nginx 
 - tester(Apache ab/JMeter) 

hardware:
> 
 - Amazon EC2 [m1.medium](http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/#selecting-instance-types)
 - Ubuntu 12.04 x64

### Concurrency
100 concurrent requests, total 500 requests.
<pre>
ab -c 100 -n 500 ...
</pre>

## Result
### Throughput
Time per request (download)

File size | Nginx+Hard drive | Nginx+GridFS plugin | Python(pymongo+gevent) | Node.js
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
**1KB** | 0.174 | 1.124 | 1.982 | 1.679 
**100KB** | 1.014 | 1.572 | 3.103 | 3.708
**1MB** | 9.582 | 9.567 | 15.973 | 18.317

You can get Apache ab report in folder: [``testresult``](/testresult)


### Server load
The server load is be monitored by command:
<code>
vmstat 2
</code> 



todo graphic

and the graphic is generated by [http://vmstax.michenux.net/](http://vmstax.michenux.net/)

### Conclusion
 - Files served by Nginx directly is no doubt the most efficient one, whether performance or server load. In real world, the directive ``open_file_cache`` should be confined well for better performance. And must mention, it's the only one support pause and resume during the download(HTTP range support). 
 - For the rest 3 test items, files are stored in MongoDB, but served by different drivers. 

>
 - serve static files by application is really not an appropriate choice. They drains CPU too much and the performance is not good. 
 - nginx_gridfs (MongoDB C driver): downloading requests will be processed at Nginx level, which is in front of web applications in most deployments. Web application can focus on processing dynamic contents instead of static content. And the performance is the best comparing to other 2 applications written in script languages. The performance differences between Nginx and nginx_gridfs will getting small while file size getting larger. But you can not turn a blind eye on the server load.
 - pymongo and node.js driver: it's a draw game, they should not be designed to serve static content.
  



when 
But it's very convenient to work with meta data around the file. 
